---
date: '2008-12-21 23:17:07'
layout: post
slug: att-iphone-3g-versus-verizon-blackberry-curve
status: publish
title: AT&T iPhone 3G versus Verizon Blackberry Curve
wordpress_id: '90'
categories:
- Life
- Smartphones
- Reviews
---

Having used a Blackberry Curve 8330 on Verizon's network for many months, I
feel I can provide a fairly deep comparison between that and my new iPhone 3G.
Let me preface the following by saying I am neither a Mac nor a PC. I am both,
and neither. I use OSX Leopard just as often as I do XP SP3 and Vista x64 SP1,
along with Ubuntu 8.10 and Fedora 10. I am an OS-aholic. So I have no strong
ties to any given platform.

What inspired the change was this: Up until the last month or so of my Verizon
service, e-mail delivery on my Curve was nigh instantaneous. We're talking
5-10 seconds average. I would get a little "ding!" out of my phone quicker
than on my desktop e-mail client at my desk at work, and I should point that I
**am wired to the server by a single switch** and a physical distance of
perhaps 30 feet. That should clue you in. It _was_ fast.

For the last 3-4 weeks, however, deliveries to my phone have been going slower
and slower. I can verify that yes, e-mails are arriving in a timely fashion,
as my desktop client is still showing work e-mail arrivals in the time you
would expect. Same with Gmail. But my phone was frequently 10-15 minutes
behind, and getting worse. I had full signal, according to my phone's
indicators, at all times.
<!--more-->

It was finally the last straw when one morning, three time-critical e-mails to
my Gmail account took a horrifying **48 minutes** to arrive. By now, I am on
my third support call with Verizon/RIM on the matter in the last two and half
weeks. Naturally, every test message the tech sends me arrives in 60 seconds
or less. The tech then assures me that because he cannot reproduce the delay
while I'm on the call, he will not file a trouble ticket with RIM because it
costs Verizon money, and because RIM would just come back and say they
couldn't identify the problem either.

Previously, the main thing holding me back from an iPhone was the termination
fee on my contract, and the fact that push e-mail, albeit delayed, was still
faster than a device that could check automatically no more often than every
15 minutes. Then the messages started taking longer than 15 minutes. Much
longer. Verizon had to go, and I am glad to say goodbye.

First off, for an equivalent plan with the same extra features I am saving
around $27/mo. with AT&T.; Huge plus. And after carrying it for a little over
a week, I can say without a doubt that the iPhone on AT&T;'s network has the
best signal strength I've ever seen. 3-4 bars in my house, which saw 1-2 bars
from Verizon, and full bars at work, some friends' houses, and most other
places I've visited. There is one stretch of road on my drive home where I
only get EDGE service rather than 3G, but that's it. Full bars or nearly so,
3G coverage almost everywhere.

I had vastly underestimated the value of 802.11g support in a smartphone. I
spend a good 3/4 of my regular schedule in places with wireless coverage, and
yet was suffering through Verizon's slow 3G network at all times. Now, I can
zip around the internet and view full regular pages faster than I was seeing
mobile-optimized pages on the Curve. Even without a wireless network to use,
3G browsing is still pretty snappy.

Owning a Mac and using it often has let me experience what syncing a phone and
a computer **should** be like. The tools for syncing Blackberry phones to a
Windows/Mac computer are pretty dismal, and amount to little more than
glorified backup tools. The iPhone, on the other hand, can sync all of your
browser bookmarks, e-mail accounts, iPhone/iPod applications, and contacts
from your Address Book, all in one place, in a first-party app. The same tool
makes solid backups of your iPhone's contents every time it gets synced. That
makes a world of difference, truly.

That leads me to the iPhone's crowning jewel: third-party apps from the App
Store. I have not jailbroken my iPhone. I doubt I will, because the App
Store's offerings are that solid. Getting a new app to run on a Blackberry
required finding out about the software and where to find it, because there
was no centralized place to look for them. It also required you to verify that
it would run correctly on your specific model, which was a total crapshoot.
And nearly any quality app costed money. Usually between $10 and $30. Not so
with the App Store. There are _tons and tons_ of quality offerings on the App
Store for **free**. Plenty more are between $0.99 and $4.99. The last I read,
there are over **ten thousand** apps available in the App Store. All in one
centralized place, well-organized and easy to browse both from a computer and
from your iPhone. Applications can be downloaded and installed over the air,
which is not unique to the iPhone, but it works so painlessly that it's like a
new experience.

The iPhone falls short in just a few places. Push e-mail is only available on
the iPhone with your Mac.com/Me.com account, Yahoo accounts, or an Exchange
2003+ server running ActiveSync software. Other e-mails are synced
automatically every 15 minutes, or less often if you configure it so. You can
check manually as often as you like, however, but this requires you to run the
iPhone's Mail app to do so. With the Blackberry, I could configure up to 10
e-mail addresses, POP/IMAP/etc., and have them delivered at near real-time.
Also, there is no unified inbox for showing mail on all of my accounts. I miss
that from my Curve.

Secondly, the huge screen on the iPhone is gorgeous, but a total bitch to keep
clean, particularly when holding the phone to my face. And I absolutely cannot
type without looking on a touch screen.

My largest complaint is battery life. I typically could go no more than two
days without plugging it in. If I'm not using it, some techniques will prolong
the battery life quite a bit, i.e. turning off Wi-Fi and 3G, leaving it on
silent, reducing the frequency of e-mail checks, using Airplane Mode in rare
areas with little service, etc. But using it heavily, like when I was playing
silly Youtube clips for Brittany's nieces, could kill it in about an hour or
two. Playing local media already stored on the iPhone isn't nearly so bad. If
I use it as just a phone, and don't toy with the solitaire games or Twitter
apps or check my Plurk page with it, it'd last a lot longer. Standby life is
officially said to be in the neighborhood of 300 hours, I believe, and that
sounds about right. This is the only area my Curve wins, because it lasted a
2-3 days or more on one charge.

My last complaint stems from my tendency to try out lots of new Apps:
Organizing the Home Screen kind of sucks. You enter the configuration mode
that lets you drag apps around to organize them, but you have to do it on the
iPhone, and the organization is lost if you add and remove apps frequently.
And you can, at most, move 4 apps at a time by using the shortcut bar at the
bottom to store them temporarily. I'm waiting very hopefully to one day
organize the screens on my iPhone from iTunes using a mouse, and have the
settings carry over when I add or remove apps. Perhaps some automagic
categorization that puts i.e. all games on a given page, all social
networking/IM apps on a page, etc. is in order.

